OSDOCS-16850 2 - CQA for OVNK-1 (#111189)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ovn-kubernetes-logical-architecture-con.adoc

[id="ovn-kubernetes-logical-architecture-con_{context}"]
= OVN-Kubernetes logical architecture

[role="_abstract"]

> OVN is a network virtualization solution. It creates logical switches and routers. These switches and routers are interconnected to create any network topologies. When you run `ovnkube-trace` with the log level set to 2 or 5 the OVN-Kubernetes logical components are exposed. The following diagram shows how the routers and switches are connected in {product-title}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OVN-Kubernetes (OVN-K) is a network virtualization solution. It creates logical switches and routers. These switches and routers are interconnected to create any network topologies. 

The following diagram shows how the routers and switches are connected in {product-title}:
```

Reviewer: I would drop that "If you run `ovnkube-trace` with the log level set to 2 or 5, the OVN-Kubernetes logical components are exposed." into a NOTE maybe after the explanations

Author: Thanks, yeah that sounds good.

Logical switches with patch ports:: Logical switches with patch ports are used to virtualize the network stack. They connect remote logical ports through tunnels.

Logical switches with localnet ports:: Logical switches with localnet ports are used to connect OVN to the physical network. They connect remote logical ports by bridging the packets to directly connected physical L2 segments by using localnet ports.

Patch ports:: Patch ports represent connectivity between logical switches and logical routers and between peer logical routers. A single connection has a pair of patch ports at each such point of connectivity, one on each side.

> l3gateway ports:: l3gateway ports are the port binding entries in the `ovn-sbdb` for logical patch ports used in the gateway routers. They are called l3gateway ports rather than patch ports just to portray the fact that these ports are bound to a chassis similar to the gateway router itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`l3gateway` ports:: `3gateway` ports are the port binding entries in the `ovn-sbdb` for logical patch ports used in the gateway routers. They are called `l3gateway` ports rather than patch ports because these ports are bound to a chassis similar to the gateway router itself.
```

Author: Ty.
